> String Key Value Type Required? Description “.uses_dynamic_stack” boolean Indicates if the generated machine code is using a dynamically sized stack. “.workgroup_processor_mode” boolean (GFX10+) Controls ENABLE_WGP_MODE in Code Object V3 Kernel Descriptor . AMDHSA Code Object V5 Kernel Attribute Metadata Map # String Key Value Type Required? Description “.uniform_work_group_size” integer Indicates if the kernel requires that each dimension of global size is a multiple of corresponding dimension of work-group size. Value of 1 implies true and value of 0 implies false. Metadata is only emitted when value is 1. AMDHSA Code Object V5 Kernel Argument Metadata Map Additions and Changes # String Key Value Type Required? Description “.value_kind” string Required Kernel argument kind that specifies how to set up the corresponding argument. Values include: the same as code object V3 metadata (see AMDHSA Code Object V3 Kernel Argument Metadata Map ) with the following additions: “hidden_block_count_x” The grid dispatch work-group count for the X dimension is passed in the kernarg. Some languages, such as OpenCL, support a last work-group in each dimension being partial. This count only includes the non-partial work-group count. This is not the same as the value in the AQL dispatch packet, which has the grid size in work-items. “hidden_block_count_y” The grid dispatch work-group count for the Y dimension is passed in the kernarg. Some languages, such as OpenCL, support a last work-group in each dimension being partial. This count only includes the non-partial work-group count. This is not the same as the value in the AQL dispatch packet, which has the grid size in work-items. If the grid dimensionality is 1, then must be 1. “hidden_block_count_z” The grid dispatch work-group count for the Z dimension is passed in the kernarg. Some languages, such as OpenCL, support a last work-group in each dimension being partial. This count only includes the non-partial work-group count. This is not the same as the value in the AQL dispatch packet, which has the grid size in work-items. If the grid dimensionality is 1 or 2, then must be 1. “hidden_group_size_x” The grid dispatch work-group size for the X dimension is passed in the kernarg. This size only applies to the non-partial work-groups. This is the same value as the AQL dispatch packet work-group size. “hidden_group_size_y” The grid dispatch work-group size for the Y dimension is passed in the kernarg. This size only applies to the non-partial work-groups. This is the same value as the AQL dispatch packet work-group size. If the grid dimensionality is 1, then must be 1. “hidden_group_size_z” The grid dispatch work-group size for the Z dimension is passed in the kernarg. This size only applies to the non-partial work-groups. This is the same value as the AQL dispatch packet work-group size. If the grid dimensionality is 1 or 2, then must be 1. “hidden_remainder_x” The grid dispatch work group size of the partial work group of the X dimension, if it exists. Must be zero if a partial work group does not exist in the X dimension. “hidden_remainder_y” The grid dispatch work group size of the partial work group of the Y dimension, if it exists. Must be zero if a partial work group does not exist in the Y dimension. “hidden_remainder_z” The grid dispatch work group size of the partial work group of the Z dimension, if it exists. Must be zero if a partial work group does not exist in the Z dimension. “hidden_grid_dims” The grid dispatch dimensionality. This is the same value as the AQL dispatch packet dimensionality. Must be a value between 1 and 3. “hidden_heap_v1” A global address space pointer to an initialized memory buffer that conforms to the requirements of the malloc/free device library V1 version implementation. “hidden_dynamic_lds_size” Size of the dynamically allocated LDS memory is passed in the kernarg. “hidden_private_base” The high 32 bits of the flat addressing private aperture base. Only used by GFX8 to allow conversion between private segment and flat addresses. See Flat Scratch . “hidden_shared_base” The high 32 bits of the flat addressing shared aperture base. Only used by GFX8 to allow conversion between shared segment and flat addresses. See Flat Scratch . “hidden_queue_ptr” A global memory address space pointer to the ROCm runtime struct amd_queue_t structure for the HSA queue of the associated dispatch AQL packet. It is only required for pre-GFX9 devices for the trap handler ABI (see Trap Handler ABI ). Code Object V6 Metadata # Code object V6 metadata is the same as Code Object V5 Metadata with the changes defined in table AMDHSA Code Object V6 Kernel Metadata Map Additions . AMDHSA Code Object V6 Kernel Metadata Map Additions # String Key Value Type Required? Description “.cluster_dims” sequence of 3 integers The dimension of the cluster. Kernel Dispatch # The HSA architected queuing language (AQL) defines a user space memory interface that can be used to control the dispatch of kernels, in an agent independent way. An agent can have zero or more AQL queues created for it using an HSA compatible runtime (see AMDGPU Operating Systems ), in which AQL packets (all of which are 64 bytes) can be placed. See the HSA Platform System Architecture Specification [HSA] for the AQL queue mechanics and packet layouts. The packet processor of a kernel agent is responsible for detecting and dispatching HSA kernels from the AQL queues associated with it. For AMD GPUs the packet processor is implemented by the hardware command processor (CP), asynchronous dispatch controller (ADC) and shader processor input controller (SPI). An HSA compatible runtime can be used to allocate an AQL queue object. It uses the kernel mode driver to initialize and register the AQL queue with CP. To dispatch a kernel the following actions are performed. This can occur in the CPU host program, or from an HSA kernel executing on a GPU. A pointer to an AQL queue for the kernel agent on which the kernel is to be executed is obtained. A pointer to the kernel descriptor (see Kernel Descriptor ) of the kernel to execute is obtained. It must be for a kernel that is contained in a code object that was loaded by an HSA compatible runtime on the kernel agent with which the AQL queue is associated. Space is allocated for the kernel arguments using the HSA compatible runtime allocator for a memory region with the kernarg property for the kernel agent that will execute the kernel. It must be at least 16-byte aligned. Kernel argument values are assigned to the kernel argument memory allocation. The layout is defined in the HSA Programmer’s Language Reference [HSA] . For AMDGPU the kernel execution directly accesses the kernel argument memory in the same way constant memory is accessed. (Note that the HSA specification allows an implementation to copy the kernel argument contents to another location that is accessed by the kernel.) An AQL kernel dispatch packet is created on the AQL queue. The HSA compatible runtime api uses 64-bit atomic operations to reserve space in the AQL queue for the packet. The packet must be set up, and the final write must use an atomic store release to set the packet kind to ensure the packet contents are visible to the kernel agent. AQL defines a doorbell signal mechanism to notify the kernel agent that 
